Stardate 50814.2.
Captain's Log,
The Defiant is returning
to Deep Space 9
reconnaissance mission
after a week-long
in the Gamma Quadrant.
I can't wait to get home
and sleep in my own bed.
The bunks on this ship
are so uncomfortable.
what I could use?
You know
at the Golian spa.
A weekend
Mmm... maybe
you and Shakaar
can slip away when we get back.
each other anymore.
We're not seeing
When did this happen?
Last week.
No wonder you've
been so down lately.
I miss him.
But the last time
we were on Bajor,
we went to the Kenda shrine
and we asked the Prophets
to walk the same path.
if we were meant
We're not.
And?
DAX:
You make it sound
so cut-and-dry.
Well, the way I see it,
meant to be together
people are either
or they're not.
I guess I'd rather believe
that any relationship
can work
as long as both people
really want it to.
I'm not sure I have an opinion
on the subject.
Excuse me.
I need to regenerate.
Is he all right?
You know Odo.
This sort of talk
makes him uncomfortable.
No, thanks.
I'm trying
to cut down.
O'BRIEN: I'm making
Molly a dollhouse
for her birthday.
Oh. Thank you.
The house itself was easy,
but the furniture--
even with a microlathe,
I'm not sure I'm going
to get it all
finished in time.
to have to rough it for a while.
I guess her dolls are going
Interesting.
some unusual readings
I'm getting
from a nearby solar system.
What kind of readings?
There's some sort
of energy barrier
surrounding the
fourth planet.
from the interference,
It's hard to tell
but there could be life-forms
on the surface.
If there are, I'd be interested
to see how they've adapted
to the quantum fluctuations
in the barrier.
O'BRIEN:
Can't we check it out
the next time
we come this way?
It'll be too late.
At the rate the interference
is intensifying,
in a few weeks,
we won't even be able to
send a probe through it.
Dax...
I know everyone wants
to go home,
but if we're going to take
a look at this planet,
it'll be our only chance.
Are you sure it's safe
the interference?
to pass through
and it should be smooth sailing.
A few shield modifications,
we'll make a quick survey,
All right,
but if all we detect
is some fungus,
we're not beaming down.
What if it's smart fungus?
We're approaching the barrier.
All right, old man,
take us in.
( alarm beeping )
Adjusting shield harmonics
to compensate.
Quantum fluctuations
are intensifying.
( gasping )
We're through.
I think so.
Are you all right?
No, I'm fine.
Dr. Bashir to the Bridge.
The inertial dampers
are off-line
stabilizers are depolarized.
and the gyromagnetic
We're going to be here
for a few days.
Smooth sailing.
WORF:
Sir, we are being hailed
from the surface.
scattered settlements
There are several
across the southern peninsula.
I am reading approximately...
8,000 inhabitants.
They appear to be human.
On screen.
Welcome to Gaia,
Captain Sisko.
We've been expecting you.
You know my name?
It's a long story,
Benjamin. Why don't
you come down
and we'll talk about it
over some raktajino?
Oh, I forgot.
You're trying
to cut down.
active transport)
( whoosh of
Miranda O'Brien.
Yedrin...
Yedrin Dax.
What a coincidence.
Would one of you
mind telling us
what's going on?
MIRANDA:
This settlement was
founded by the crew
of a Starfleet
vessel that crashed
on this planet
two centuries ago.
I realize this is
going to be hard
for you to accept,
but that ship
was the Defiant.
Two days from now,
when you leave here
and try to pass through
the energy barrier,
back in time 200 years.
you will be thrown
You'll be stranded here
and become the founders
of this settlement.
We... are your descendants.
YEDRIN:
Go ahead,
Jadzia, scan me.
You'll find the Dax
symbiont right here.
It's true.
YEDRIN:
The symbiont
has been passed down
to Jadzia's descendants
for three generations.
I remember all of you
like it was yesterday.
If you scan Miranda,
you'll find that her DNA
is substantially similar
to that of the Chief's.
She's an O'Brien,
all right.
And a Tannenbaum, too.
You mean
Ensign Tannenbaum?
From Engineering?
You and Rita were married
ten years after
the Defiant crashed.
You were trapped here, Miles,
200 years in the past.
There was no going home.
There was no chance
of ever seeing
your family again.
You were the last
to give up hope
but, eventually,
you had to make
a new life
for yourself here.
Mm-hmm.
I know that face, Benjamin.
You're still not convinced
that we're telling
you the truth.
All right,
if you want,
I could tell
you something
that only Curzon
would know.
Do you remember
that dancer
that you met on
Pelios Station?
That... that'll do.
The one that...?
Thank you.
Are you the son of Mogh?
Yes, I am.
Is it true you
can kill someone
just by looking at them?
Only when I am angry.
( crowd chuckles )
MIRANDA:
Why don't we go inside?
some of the others later.
You can meet
a lot to talk about.
We still have
Ready for the next problem?
27 tessipates of land
Say you have
you want to plant with nice,
juicy yelg melons.
This is our meeting hall
which, as you can see,
we sometimes use
as a schoolroom.
...needs one square kerripate
of land to grow in
what is the total number
of melons you can plant?
as you have an answer.
Let me know as soon
Jadzia designed it as
an educational program.
She took Quark's image
from the security logs
of the Defiant.
I've always thought
that Quark would make
a great math teacher.
He's so good
with numbers.
I like your spots.
Most people
don't have them
because our ancestors
were mostly human.
My mom says they
make me special.
It's just genetics, Lisa,
like... Torvin's ridges.
You're just
jealous, Molly.
Molly?
Oh, yes, you'll find
a lot of them here.
The name has been
passed down through
the O'Brien line.
Molly, this is
your grandfather's
great-great-great-grandfather.
Hello.
Hi.
How much were we...
were you
able to salvage
from the Defiant?
A portable generator,
a replicator
a few phasers, tricorders,
things of that sort.
to send out a distress signal?
Did anybody ever try
To who? It was
200 years ago.
The wormhole hadn't even
been discovered yet.
There was no way back
to the Alpha Quadrant.
Our ancestors decided to
make this their new home.
And they needed
a shelter quickly
before winter came.
This is it.
This is the oldest
building there is.
At first, everyone
had to sleep here--
all 48 of them.
Forty-eight?
Ah...
Kira died
a few weeks
after the crash.
The energy discharge
that struck her on the Bridge
damaged her
neural pathways.
The Defiant didn't have
the medical equipment
that Julian needed
to treat her.
You want to see
where she was buried?
Maybe later.
Girls, why don't you run along
and help your parents?
It's almost time
for planting, and there's
a lot of work to be done.
Bye.
Obviously, we need to get Kira
back to the station
for treatment
Of course.
repair the Defiant.
as soon as we can
I don't quite know
how to say this,
but now that we know
about the accident
that sent the ship back in time,
we should be able to avoid it.
WORF:
Well, if we do that
your timeline will collapse
and everything here
will cease to exist.
Not necessarily.
I have a plan.
And the key is what happened
to Kira on the Bridge.
This energy discharge
caused a subspace
doubling effect.
For an instant,
every molecule in her body
had a corresponding
quantum duplicate.
There were literally
two Kiras.
Go on.
If we make
certain modifications
to the Defiant's systems,
we should be able to amplify
this doubling effect
and create a quantum duplicate
of the entire ship.
When you encounter
the temporal anomaly
the duplicate will be
thrown back into the past,
and the original--
you-- will pass through
the barrier unaffected.
O'BRIEN:
So you're saying
we go home,
and your timeline
is preserved.
Exactly.
What do you think?
It might work.
YEDRIN:
Now, according
to the logs
I retrieved
from the wreckage,
the Defiant encountered
the anomaly 39 hours
after it
arrived in orbit.
If your plan is to work,
we must do the same.
There are almost 8,000 people
living on this planet.
the only chance they have.
This is
Dax, I want a
full evaluation
as soon as possible.
If the plan is sound,
start making
the modifications
immediately.
Thank you, Benjamin.
Anything for you...
old man.
Apparently, the planet
is crawling with Bashirs.
( laughs )
Maybe I'll stay up here.
How's Odo?
He's resting comfortably.
He can't hold his shape
because of the quantum
fluctuations inside the barrier.
Sweet dreams, Odo.
But he'll be
as right as rain
as soon as we leave orbit.
You, on the other hand...
are going to have
to undergo a complete
neural pathway induction
as soon as we get back
to the station.
If you say so.
I feel fine.
That's because
your neural tissue
hasn't begun
to deteriorate yet,
but rest assured,
you'll be on my operating
table eventually.
Hey...
where you off to?
meet some of those Bashirs.
I have to get down there,
Hello, Nerys.
Odo?
I came up from the surface
as soon as I heard
you were here.
holding your shape?
How... how are you
I... I thought...
the barrier's effects
I learned to counter
a long time ago.
It's good to see you.
You look different.
I've gotten better
at shape-shifting
over the years.
You're as beautiful
as I remember.
You can't know how I've longed
to hear your voice,
see your smile.
Odo... what's
gotten into you?
I want you to know,
There's something
to tell you for 200 years.
something I've wanted
I love you, Nerys.
I've always loved you.
What do you mean,
you love me?
Is it so hard to believe?
you felt that way about me.
I never knew
I did everything I could
to make sure you
wouldn't find out.
Uh...
it worked.
ever say anything?
Why didn't you
could possibly care for me
I didn't think you
the way I care for you.
I suppose I was afraid
of ruining what we had.
Our friendship meant
everything to me.
It still does.
Maybe I shouldn't
have said anything.
It's not that.
I was just thinking
about all the times
about Shakaar and Bareil.
I came to you for advice
It must have been
very hard for you
to listen to me go on
about another man.
No, I can't say I enjoyed it.
a good friend to you.
But I wanted to be
You were.
Nerys, I didn't come
here expecting you
to throw yourself
into my arms.
But you're leaving
here in two days.
I'm never going
to see you again.
All I'm asking
is that you spend
some time with me.
Gaia is a very
beautiful place.
I'd love to show it to you.
I'd like that.
He has your eyes.
Do you think so?
You think so?
Dax to Sisko.
Go ahead.
Good news, Benjamin.
I've gone over the sensor
logs from the crash.
It looks like Yedrin's plan
Defiant  is going to work.
to create a duplicate
Di-di-did you hear that?
Yes, everything's going
to be all right.
( baby cooing )
Yes, yes...
Sounds like you have your hands
full down there, Benjamin.
Yes, you could say that.
We'll keep you posted.
DAX:
Thirsty?
The Captain asked me
to make a survey
of the settlement's
infrastructure
so we can leave behind
the appropriate supplies.
I've just been doing the
same thing at the clinic.
I met one of my
descendants there--
my great-great-great-
great-granddaughter.
The doctor. She made
quite a fuss over me.
Apparently, my healing
touch is something of
a legend around here.
They're here!
Who?
The Klingons.
Qapla'.
We are the Sons of Mogh.
You are my descendants.
Some by blood,
some by choice.
Our hearts are Klingon.
We live as warriors,
our ancestors long ago.
just as you taught
one of them someday.
I'm going to be
I'll ride a wild torga
and go hunting
and only come to the settlement
for the things I need.
to trade furs
When you're older,
you'll have the chance
to prove yourself.
If you are worthy,
you can take a Klingon name
and live among us.
The Sons of Mogh are gathering
to celebrate your return.
It would honor us greatly
if you would feast
with us tonight.
I look forward to it.
We'll come for you at nightfall.
Well, it would appear
that I'm not the only
legend around here.
Once the emitter array
is recalibrated,
we can start synchronizing
the shield generators.
Oh, good.
We're ahead of schedule.
( chuckling )
What?
Tell me.
You just reminded me
of something.
The summer after the crash,
Jadzia cut her hair short.
it was so hot,
Worf hated it.
I remember promising
to grow it back
in time for the wedding.
We got married?
Mm-hmm.
The next fall.
Benjamin performed the ceremony.
I'll never forget Worf's voice
as he said his vows.
It was shaking.
( laughs )
Were we happy together?
Mm-hmm.
He's a good man, Jadzia.
I know.
It's just, sometimes...
to get along with.
he's so hard
You'll learn to handle him.
Don't worry.
BASHIR:
Did I mention
she was a doctor?
Twice.
Well, she showed me
pictures of the family
going all the way
back to me.
You know who I ended up with
after the crash?
Angie Kirby.
Yeah, that's what I said.
Who's that?
Apparently, she transferred
aboard last week.
But she's gorgeous.
You know what?
Congratulations.
I think I'm going to ask her out
when we get back.
We obviously
got along well here.
So, you and, uh...
Rita Tannenbaum.
I don't want to hear
about it, Julian.
I have a wife
and kids back home.
Sorry. I didn't
mean anything.
You know, I'm going to let you
get back on with your work.
( giggling )
( sighs )
Praying over your own grave.
That's got to be a new one.
Yeah.
If the Prophets were listening,
they're probably very confused.
Well, I wouldn't blame them.
I've got to tell you, that...
this whole quantum duplicate,
two Defiants thing
has me feeling a little strange.
Why? Thanks
to Yedrin's plan,
is being preserved.
our timeline
You're going back
to the station
for the treatment you need.
I know. It...
it's just that I've
always believed
one destiny-- one path--
that we're all given
and now we're using technology
to get around that.
how it makes me feel.
I'm not sure
I know exactly
You can't know
how much it means to me
to know you're
going home, Nerys.
No, it won't change
anything for me.
I lost you 200 years ago.
But for the other Odo,
up on the ship,
it changes everything.
He doesn't have to lose you.
And somehow...
knowing that...
makes me feel better.
Does that make any sense?
You've changed so much, Odo.
I don't just mean
the way you look.
You used to be so closed off.
I have changed.
And the Odo you know
will change, too.
If you're patient with him.
Why don't we head back?
Ah.
Nice catch.
Dax.
We need to talk.
Uh-huh.
I was going over
the sensor logs
from the crash,
and I came across
something odd.
The quantum fluctuations
in the barrier
factored out to zero.
The chances of that
must be a billion to one.
What are you
getting at?
That Yedrin
faked the logs.
Why would he do that?
So we'd think his plan
was going to work.
It's not. There was
never going to be
a duplicate Defiant--
just one-- and Yedrin
wanted to make sure
it went back in time.
So that history
would repeat itself.
If I hadn't realized
what he had done,
we would have
ended up stranded here
and Kira would have died.
You betrayed us.
You betrayed me.
You call yourself
Yedrin Dax,
but I don't recognize you.
Now that you know,
what are you going
to do about it?
What do you think?
Oh, damn it, Ben!
If you don't take
the Defiant back in time,
the 8,000 people
on this planet
will cease to exist!
You think I don't care?
Oh, come on, you know
me better than that.
What am I supposed to do?
and deliberately maroon
Recreate the accident
my crew?
That's what would have happened.
what's supposed to happen?
Who's to say that's not
and argue philosophy with you.
I'm not going to stand here
to protect my people.
I have a duty
Look around you, Benjamin.
Think of the things that you've
seen since you got here.
This is what your crew
and their descendants
will build if you let
history play itself out.
that it won't be hard at first,
I'm not saying
good lives here, happy lives.
but they will have
to the station, she'll die.
If we don't get her back
What about Kira?
Is one life too much to ask
if it saves 8,000?
Who are you to decide
who lives or dies?
Who are you to
make that call?!
I have to make that call
because I'm responsible
for what happened here.
Jadzia knows what
I'm talking about.
She's the one
who insisted
that the Defiant
investigate this planet.
You know as well as I do
that you should have
been more careful--
you should have seen that
the barrier was unstable
when you scanned it.
But I didn't.
I was so bent on making
some great discovery...
that I missed it.
And because of you,
because of me,
Kira died and 48 people
were stranded here.
You don't know
what it was like
to live with that.
For years, Benjamin,
every time I looked at you,
all I could think about
was Jake
and how, because of me,
he would never see
his father again.
Eventually, I had
to accept the fact
there was nothing
I could do to change things.
I couldn't bring
Kira back.
All I could do was look
to the future, Benjamin,
and make sure
that we survived here...
no matter what.
is my responsibility.
This community...
I have watched it grow
For two centuries,
into something to be proud of.
these people have worked
For generations,
for themselves here.
to make a life
They deserve a chance
to hang on to it.
I'm not denying that!
I wish there was a way
we could help you,
but my people have the right
to their families,
to return home
and I will not
ask Kira
to sacrifice
her life
for 8,000 people--
for eight million!
No one has the right
to ask that.
I'm sorry,
old man,
but there is nothing I can do.
Look at them.
They have no idea
what's going to happen.
It is for the best.
They are children.
They would not
understand.
I'm not sure
I understand.
8,000 people, Worf--
they have to die
because I've got to go
back to the station
to be treated
for some condition
I can't even tell I have.
That is not the only
reason we are going back.
Do not blame
yourself, Major.
I'm going up to the ship.
It would have been
a good crop this year.
Spring came so early.
Miranda...
is something
wrong?
Everyone's so quiet.
It's nothing you need
to worry about.
WOMAN:
We came to tell you
there will be
no feast tonight.
I understand.
This is not a time
for celebration.
MAN: Tomorrow,
we will see
the sun rise again...
but no one here will see it set.
There is something
Join me.
I wish to say.
It is... a great honor
to know that my legacy
has thrived on your world
for so long.
I can see the Klingon heart
beats strong here.
with your words.
You honor us
We have tried to live
as you taught us to.
We've never plowed fields
or milked chattel.
We've lived as warriors,
hunters.
Last year, I slew a yar-bear
three meters tall.
was my only weapon.
Your mek'leth
The beast maimed me,
and for a time,
it seemed I would die
from my wounds.
Now I wish I had.
It would have been
a warrior's death.
He could have taken his place
among the honored dead
in Sto-Vo-Kor.
Perhaps he will yet.
Ceasing to exist
No.
because my parents
were never born?
worthy of Sto-Vo-Kor.
That is not a death
Kill me, Worf.
I have no enemies to fight,
no glory to be won.
Give me
an honorable death.
Don't make us wait for the end
waiting for slaughter.
like farm animals
I will come to you tomorrow...
and do what you ask.
Why did you want
to come back here?
I had to see it again,
so I could be sure.
Sure about what?
That this is where I belong.
The path the Prophets
laid out for me ends here.
Well, not this time, Nerys.
The Captain's taking you
back to DS9.
I can't let him do that--
not if it's going
to cost 8,000 lives.
No, we have to let
history take its course,
even if it means
I have to die here.
What?
Have you lost your mind?
Kira, if we don't go
back to the station,
you'll die within
a few weeks.
There's nothing I
can do for you here.
I know that, Julian,
I've accepted it.
We've got to take
the Defiant back in time.
Otherwise,
we're cheating fate.
Well, I wouldn't mind
cheating fate all the way
home to the station.
DAX:
Neither would I,
but if we go home,
8,000 people
are going to cease to exist.
I don't know those people,
but I have a wife and kids
back home who need me.
Your family
will be fine, Miles.
The Prophets
will take care of them.
No offense, but I don't
believe in your Prophets.
All Major Kira is saying
is our families
will survive
no matter what we do.
The colonists will not.
If she is willing
to sacrifice her life
to save them,
I am willing
to remain here.
Well, that's easy
for you to say.
You hardly ever
see your son.
And you are afraid
to face your destiny.
Look, we can sit here
and argue about destiny
till we're blue in the face,
but the bottom line is,
nobody has the right
to tell me I can't
go home to my family.
I want to go home
as much as you do, Chief.
I'm just listening to
what everyone has to say.
So we're not actually
considering this?
No, we're not.
Captain?!
Major, you've made
your position clear.
All right, people,
dismissed.
this will all be gone.
By sunset,
Taking a last
look around?
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Gabriel, where are you going
in such a hurry?
It's time for planting.
To the fields.
Come on, Gabriel.
There isn't
much time.
Put some of this
on your face.
The sun is
strong today.
Planting day has always
been important here.
It brings
everyone together.
Somehow it feels right
to see it through.
Oh, here's one for you.
Thanks.
Molly, take that
from the bottom.
Thank you.
you asked for, sir.
The status report
The repairs are finished.
The Defiant's ready
to leave orbit.
Aren't you going to help?
I'm busy.
You don't look busy.
( laughing )
She's an O'Brien,
all right.
Better get to it, Chief.
( laughing )
You said there was
an enemy for us to fight.
to plant their fields
They are attempting
before the sun sets.
Time is their enemy.
We should help them defeat it.
Bring the others.
Oh, great.
You know...
I have a little girl
named Molly, too.
Mm-hmm.
Really?
Can I meet her?
We'll see.
By summer, this plant
will be taller than you.
After the harvest,
I'll help my mother
make gelm bread
with it.
WOMAN:
Molly.
Something wrong?
What?
We can't do it.
these people die.
We can't let
( children laughing )
You're it.
from the original crash--
The navigational logs
into the ship's autopilot
download them
the original trajectory.
and it'll match
That should send
the Defiant back
to the right
point in time.
I don't know...
how to thank you
for what you're doing.
We'd better go, Benjamin.
There isn't
much time.
You can't do this.
Please don't make
this any harder
than it already is.
You have to go home,
Nerys-- you have to.
This isn't about me.
This is about the 8,000
people down on that planet,
their children
and their grandchildren.
What about the children
who'll never be born
because the Defiant
doesn't return to DS9?
They don't exist yet.
These people do.
Nerys, just tell
me one thing.
If you'd known how
I felt about you,
if I'd said
something years ago,
do you think things might
have been different?
Maybe.
Has everyone had a chance
to record a message
to their families?
I've downloaded the recordings
into a class-4 probe.
It'll start transmitting
a location signal
clears the barrier.
as soon as it
Launch the probe, Chief.
It's time.
SISKO:
Transfer helm control
to autopilot.
Autopilot engaged.
Raise shields.
DAX:
Aye, sir.
WORF:
We are breaking orbit.
to 42 mark seven.
Coming around
an unusual temporal signature.
I'm picking up
We're headed straight for it.
It's the anomaly.
Ten seconds to impact.
Eight...
seven...
six...
five... four...
We're veering away
from the anomaly.
Try to override
the autopilot.
I can't.
We're clearing the barrier.
What happened?
Someone changed our flight plan.
It wasn't me.
Scan the surface.
No sign of the settlement...
or the inhabitants.
Everything's gone.
Whoever changed
our flight plan
knew their way around
the computer system.
They bypassed our
security protocols
without leaving a trace.
It must have been
someone from the crew.
Or someone who used to be.
Yedrin?
Hmm.
But all he cared about
was the settlement.
What could have
changed his mind?
Seeing us again.
Perhaps he decided
he couldn't let us
go through with it.
Everyone we met...
they never existed.
They existed.
As long as we remember them...
they always will.
( door chimes )
Come in.
Odo.
There's something
you should know.
the one from the planet...
The other Odo,
before he left the ship.
came to Sick Bay
Oh?
He linked with me.
( clears throat )
Now... I know everything
that happened.
The, uh... other day,
when I told you
about Shakaar and... me
not seeing each other
anymore...
you seemed so uncomfortable.
I had come to accept the fact
that you were involved
with someone else.
everything changed.
Then suddenly
I don't know what to say.
I'm still trying
to sort everything out.
So am I.
I think we both need some time.
other Odo wanted you to know.
There's something else the
He was responsible for changing
the Defiant's flight plan.
Why?
wouldn't have to die.
So that you
I can't believe it.
8,000 people.
He did it for you, Nerys.
He loved you.
That makes it right?!
I don't know.
He thought so.
I'll see you in the morning.